 To create <All INFs> Folder with all your .INF files

 Copyright Leshek Fiedorowicz '92 CIS#74170,2007
 Distribute original ZIP file freely with no changes.

 V.3.00 by Leshek Fiedorowicz 1992-12-20
 V.3.01 by Leshek Fiedorowicz 1993-01-20
 V.3.02 by Leshek Fiedorowicz 1993-03-11
        inspired by suggestions from A. C. Buehler
        the following have been added:
        - assigning icons
        - option to search only specified drives
        - the ALLINFS.LST has been updated 

 What to do ?
   UnZip all files into the new directory on your HD.
   Make this directory current.
   Call CREINFS from your os2 command line.
   Look for a new <All IPFs> folder on your desktop.

 Options and parameters:

   1) Search only specified filed.  Reccommended for use when you have
      CD ROM and don't want to wait "forever" for CD ROM to be searched.
      /D:list
        where
        list - the list of drives to search
               ex: /D:CD to search only C: and D:
      Example:
         ALLINFS /D:CD
         to search only drives C: and D:

   2) Replace existinf objects
      /REP
      Use this option if you want to replace the existing objects.
      Reccommended in case when you want icons to be assigned or/and
      you have moved some of your existinf .INF files and want objects
      in <ALL IPFs> folder to point to the right directory.
 Creating objects with own icons:

    If you want to have object created with your own icons place the
    icon file with the same name as your .INF file in the same directory
    where your .INF file resides.  The icon will be assigned automatically.

    If the icon is not found, no error message will be generated and the
    object will be generated with the standard "book" icon.

 Requires:
   OS/2 2.0 or higher

 Files:
   CREINFS.CMD - main REXX source program
   CREINFS.ICO - incon for your new folder
   CREINFS.LST - list of file names and corresponding objects names
   CREIREAD.ME - you are reading this

Program will ignore .INF files in simple text format.  You can call 
program many times it should not create duplicated objects in the <All 
IPFs> folder.  CREINFS.LST file consist of the list of object names 
assigned to the file names.  If .INF file is found on your disks and 
is has no corresponding name of object in the list, file name will 
become the object name.  You can edit this list.  There is list of 
some system and tools files provided.  Only first entry will be 
considered, if multiple entries exist.  NOTE:  EXCLUDE in the list 
means - do not create object for this file.  

Enjoy ...
Leshek

