--------------------- Workplace Shell UnZip  version 1.1 ---------------------
--------------------- (c) Copyright 1994 Scott Maxwell. ----------------------
----------------------- by: scott.maxwell@channel1.com -----------------------


If you don't want to read this big file right now, read Readme.WUZ
instead.  You might want to read this later, though.



Welcome to WPS UnZip!

Actually, it does more than just unzip.  It can also handle ARC, ARJ, LZH,
TAR, Z and ZOO files.  You need to have unpackers for each format but then
WPS Unzip will handle the rest.  WUZ is already set up to use OS/2 versions
of Zoo 2.1, Info-Zip's Unzip 5.0, UnArj 2.41, LH2 2.14, Gnu Tar and Compress.
It will also auto-detect if you are using PKZip/PKUnZip instead.

If you want to use a different dearchiver or add another archive type, you
may have to make some changes to Wuz.Cmd.  See "Adding a New Archive Type" at
the end of this file.  The default dearchiver is UnZip if the file extension
is not recognized.  I use this to drag-and-drop QWK files when I just want to
look at my bulletins.

To install, just type INSTALL and select a directory for the executable files
from the menu.  Then enter the name of the directory where you want temporary
directories to be made.  I use E:\Download\Temp.  This will copy all of the
executable and icon files to the specified directory and create an icon on the
desktop called "WPS Unzip" which is associated with *.arc, *.arj, *.lzh, *.tar,
*.z, *.zif, *.zip and *.zoo.  It will also create a second icon for zipping
up whole directories in place called "Zip Directory".  To uninstall, simply
rerun INSTALL and select uninstall from the menu.

Now all of your archive files should have a cool zipper icon.  If you don't
see the zipper right away, try clicking the right button over the file icon
and it should change.

You can open an archive in one of three ways:
1) Double click on the file icon.
2) Drag the file icon to the WPS Unzip icon
3) Type WUZ <filename> from a command line
Note: Technique 2 or 3 may be used to extract self-extracting archives (*.EXE)

WUZ will then create a directory of the same name as the archive in whatever
directory you told it to during the install, in my case E:\Download\Temp.
After creating the directory, WUZ will extract the archive file into it, open
the directory as a folder on the Desktop and open a separate OS/2 window
set to the new directory.  This will give you easy access from both the WPS
and the command line.  Also, since each archive creates its own extract
directory, you can open as many archives at the same time as you like.
If you are using 4OS2, the command-line window will be opened as local so
it won't use any of your aliases.  WUZ needs to do this so it can create
some custom keyboard aliases.

To remove the extracted files and the temporary directory, you can type ZClr.
ZClr -x will close the OS/2 window as well.  If you are using 4OS2, you can
just type Alt-x.

If you are using ZIP archives, two other options are available: updating and
refreshing.  ZUPDATE will add any new files you have added to the extract
directory to the original archive and optionally remove any files that you
have deleted.  For instance, rename Try.Cmd to Tried.Cmd and do ZUPDATE and
you will be asked if you want to delete Try.Cmd from the archive.  Then
Tried.Cmd will be added to the archive.  If you are using 4OS2, just hit
Alt-u.  ZFRESH will update only those files that already exist in the
archive and have changed in the extract directory.  Alt-f for 4OS2 users.

I don't like seeing ZClr.Cmd, ZFresh.Cmd and ZUpdate.Cmd all the time, so I
have hidden them.  If you want to unhide them so that you can use them
from the WPS, just comment out the lines in Wuz.Cmd that hide them.

NOTE: If you double-click on ZClr.Cmd from the WPS while the command-line
      window is still open and in the extract directory, OS/2 will not be
      able to remove the extract directory.


Zipping Directories in Place
----------------------------

Sometimes I have whole directories I don't really need but I don't really
want to erase either.  The most common example of this is games that I've
finished but still might want to show to friends some time.  For situations
like these, use Zip Directory.

You can use Zip Directory in one of two ways:
1) Open the drive tree from Drives and drag-and-drop the icon of the
   subdirectory you want to zip up onto your "Zip Directory" icon.
2) Type ZIP-DIR <subdirectory-name> from a command line

This will not only move the whole directory into an icon, it will also
change the folder icon into a zipped folder icon.  If you were to open the
folder now, you would find a file called <subdirectory-name>.ZIF.

You can unzip this in one of five ways:
1) Drag the zipped folder icon from your drive tree to "WPS Unzip"
2) Drag the .ZIF file to "WPS Unzip"
3) Double click on the .ZIF file
4) Type WUZ <subdirectory-name> from a command line
5) Type WUZ <.ZIF filename> from a command line

After unzipping the files, WUZ will change the icon from a zipped folder to
an unzipped folder.  If you rezip the directory, Zip Directory will simply
update any files that have changed or been added and remove everything else so
rezipping should be much faster.


Other Goodies
-------------

This archive also includes Open-Dir.Cmd which opens the specified directory
as a folder on the desktop and Kill-Dir.Cmd which deletes the specified
directory and all of its files.  These are pretty useful in their own right.
Open-Dir.Cmd is also installed as OD.Cmd so typing "od subdirectory" will
do it.

ZipStrip.Cmd may also be of interest.  It compares the files in the current
directory to those in any ZIP file and offers to remove files from the ZIP
that do not exist in the current directory or one of its subdirectories.
This can take a little while.  I will probably rewrite this in C++ when
I get a chance.


Things You Might Want to Change
-------------------------------

If you don't want a command-line, you can set KeepCommandLineWindow to 0
at the top of Wuz.Cmd.  If you want Wuz to open the command-line and folder
on the desktop before it is finished unpacking the archive, set WaitForUnzip
to 0.  If you want WUZ to unzip the archive in the first window, set
UnzipInCommandLineWindow to 0.

If you don't want to watch the archive being unpacked, you can open the
settings page of "WPS Unzip", select Session and set Start Minimized then set
UnzipInCommandLineWindow to 0 in WUZ.Cmd.  If you do this and set
KeepCommandLineWindow to 0 in Wuz.Cmd, WUZ will only create the folder.
While your at it, you could set Start Minimized on "Zip Directory" as well.
For WPS purists, this is the way to go!

If you would rather the command-line always load another program, i.e. a text
file viewer, etc. set FinalCommand to whatever you like in Post-Wuz.Cmd.  If
you want to add any other commands to be executed every time, add them between
the two comment lines at the top of Post-WUZ.Cmd.  This is a good place to
load aliases for 4OS2 users since SHRALIAS is disabled for WUZ command line
windows.

IMPORTANT:  INSTALL will automatically preserve any of these changes that
	    you make if you reinstall.  Therefore, never modify these files
	    in the directory you are installing from.  Always modify them
	    in the executable directory.

	    I will always keep these variables intact in new versions so you
	    should never have to worry about losing your changes when
	    reinstalling unless you modify something other than what I
	    have mentioned above.


Coming Soon
-----------

I will probably rewrite ZipStrip in C++ for speed.

Also, I will probably try to figure out a way to add Update and Refresh
choices to the folder menu so that this feature can be accessed more easily
form the WPS.

I should also be releasing my Extended Folder real-soon-now.  It will
eventually provide an enhanced icon folder but currently it just adds
Open Parent and Open Command-Line to the object menu of every folder.
I will almost certainly need to use this to add Update and Refresh to the
object menus of extract directories.


For Rexx Programmers
--------------------

First of all, I believe the install program "Install.Cmd" is pretty
intelligent.  I hereby donate it to the public domain.  Use it freely
and with no restrictions.  I would appreciate it if you credit me as
the original author, though.

There are two routines here that you might want to put in your REXX
library.  One is Check4OS2 which returns 1 if the current shell is 4OS2
instead of CMD.  The other is DIRECTORY which simply makes the standard
DIRECTORY command always append a '\' and accept directory names with a
trailing backslash.  The standard DIRECTORY command chokes on trailing
backslashes unless you are specifying the root and it never returns
a name with a trailing backslash unless the current directory is the root.
My routine makes everything a bit more consistent and robust.

One other routine that you might want to check out is GetDriveSpec in Wuz.CMD.
This will take a filename and return FullPath, FullName, Ext and NameOnly.
This can even handle relative paths on different drives without changing
your current directory on any drive.



Adding a New Archive Type
-------------------------

If you want to add a different archiver, here is what you need to do.
Edit Wuz.Cmd and go down to the Extractor.Ext = whatever section.
The following explanation will make a lot more sense if you are looking
at Wuz.Cmd as you read this.

A generic archiver definition consists of the following specifications:

Extractor.<ext> = '<dearchiver>'- where Ext is the actual extension you want
				  to use and <dearchiver> includes any
				  necessary switches.  You should always
				  setup your dearchiver to extract subdirec-
				  tories and automatically overwrite if
				  possible.
CopyTo.<ext>	= Yes/No	- Some dearchivers must extract to the same
				  directory that the archive is in.  These
				  will require that the archive be copied to
				  the extract directory first.  Usually,
				  however, this will be no.
Update.<ext>	= '<archiver>'	- This should be your archive command with
				  switches to update files and work
				  recursively.
UpdateP.<ext>	= '<exclude>'	- This is a switch to stick on to the tail
				  end of the archive command to exclude
				  ZCLR.CMD, ZUPDATE.CMD and ZFRESH.CMD.
Fresh.<ext>	= '<archiver>'	- This should be your archive command with
				  switches to update only those files that
				  have changed and already exist in the
				  archive.  Don't forget any necessary
				  switches to work recursively through any
				  subdirectories.


Legalities
----------

Okay, now for the legal stuff.  I use these routines constantly and have had
no problems.  If you do, let me know.  However, I can not be held liable if
anything nasty happens.  This software is strictly of the "USE AT YOUR OWN
RISK" variety.

I am asking $20 for WPS Unzip.  I think this is probably fair.  If you make
a lot of money and WUZ saves you tons of time you could send me more.
On the other hand, if you are a starving student, just send me email telling
me what you think and we'll call it even.  I am currently living in Japan
so I know how hard it can be to send checks from outside the U.S.  If you
are an international user, send me either cash or email.  If your local
currency is pretty major, send me that and I'll try to exchange it.
Any checks should be made out to my mother:

  Patricia Maxwell
  1587 E. Modesto Ave.
  Camarillo, CA 93010
  U.S.A.

It costs me about $20 to cash a check in Japan, so this makes more sense
for me.

Comments are welcome.  I hope these REXX routines are as useful for you
as they have been for me.  I haven't found any easier way to explore
archives.  Send comments to me at scott.maxwell@channel1.com.

--------------------- Usenet: scott.maxwell@channel1.com ---------------------
