Dial.cmd is a free program written by Helge Hafting.  
Please include this text when distributing it.

Dial is a phone dialling program for those that don't have
a modem capable of doing it.  It requires os/2, rexx, and 
mmpm with the rexx interface.  The program plays dialling 
tones through whatever sound equipment the computer has.  
Turn the volume up sufficiently and hold the phone near 
the speaker.

Using the program is simple, just type dial and then the
phone number.  Alphabetic characters are converted to numbers,
using the american conversion scheme where ABC=2, DEF=3, etc.
Non-alphanumeric characters are ignored, this allows number 
formats like this: (345) 56-12 679.
The characters "*" and "#" are also transmitted, making it possible 
to use automatic phone services.
The comma "," is used as a pause character, it provides a pause
of one second before the next number is dialled.  Enter several
commas if you want a longer pause.

The program support some parameters.  Parameters has to be entered
before the phone number.  Start the parameters with a slash "/"
and one or more parameter characters.  Supported parameters:
D -> Don't display the characters as they are dialled.
# -> Convert characters (ABC->2...) before displaying them.
S -> Don't produce dialling tones.  Use it with the "#" parameter
     in order to convert numbers.
F -> force dialling even if the mmpm API seems to be missing.  
     mmpm is considered detected when the MMBASE environment 
     variable is set.  

Possible uses for the program:

1. Phoning someone.  Using the buttons on the phone is just as easy as 
   using the keyboard, but the keyboard has certain advantages:
    a. You can easily dial the same number(s) over and over again.
       Some phones has this capability, but not all.
    b. You can see the number, so you can edit it and be sure it is correct.
       This is especially useful for long numbers.

2. Using tone dialling when you have an old phone that use pulse dialling.
   Useful if you need the "*" and "#" functionality.

3. Using this program as the 'automatic dialling part' of a phone directory
   program.

4. Composing obscure melodies :-)

Revision history:

Ver 1.1:
Added the parameters S, D, #, and F
Added support for waiting in the middle of a phone number
Corrected a bug translation from characters to numbers. Thanks
to Timothy F. Sipples for providing wishes and a bug report.

dial now works even if it is started from another directory, provided
that the program isn't renamed.  The sound files still has to be in 
the same directory as dial.cmd

Ver 1.0:
Released the program capable of playing dialling tones.

