README.TXT - readme file for VOPNFDR.CMD v1.3 by M. Woo (October 1993)

VOpenFolder is a little REXX script that works in conjunction with the
IBM EWS package, VREXX (Visual REXX) by Richard B. Lam.

I don't often open folders to get at things, but I got really tired of 
going through multiply-nested folders just to get to the one I wanted. 
What I wanted was a way to open whichever folder I wished in only one
step, regardless of how deeply nested it was.  VOpenFolder does this,
using a Presentation Manager listbox dialog.

Program Notes:

This REXX script was written assuming that one is using OS/2 v2.1, and that
it is installed on the C: drive.  If your setup is different, you will have
to modify the line which reads, 

call SysFileTree "c:\desktop\*", "dirs.", "DSO" 

to reflect where your computer's desktop directory is, and in the case of
OS/2 2.0, what it is called.

Additionally, this REXX script has ONLY been tested under OS/2 2.1 so I
have no idea of how it will work on a different setup.

My thanks to Jack S. Tan, who went out of his way to write the add and
sort routines for me.

My thanks to Ken Neighbors, who suggested opening the folder twice to
get it to open in the foreground.  This works great for my other
little program, OpenFolder, but because of the way VREXX handles its
dialog boxes, this doesn't always work with VOpenFolder. :-(

Since this program uses both REXX and VREXX, it is *extremely* slow to
execute.  Removing the sort routine will speed up loading, but it will
still be slow to initialize.  Fortunately, once onscreen, the listbox
will stay there until you cancel it, so you only have to suffer through
the initial loading time once.

Note that the position and size of the listbox can be customized as
per your preferences, by changing the parameters of VDialogPos and
VListBox, respectively.  You might also want to delete all of my dumb
comment lines. :-)

I can be contacted through the end of December, 1993 at either:
Internet: m-woo@uiuc.edu (if that doesn't work, melissa@romulus.ehs.uiuc.edu)
Fidonet:  Melissa Woo (or Sysop) 1:233/4.0 or 1:233/4.100
Unfortunately, I don't have any idea where I will be after December.  
(Anyone want to hire a soon-to-be Ph.D. in radiation biophysics? :-) )

Program history:

Version
	1.0  my first attempt at using VREXX -- result was a workable,
             but ugly, version of VOpenFolder
	1.1  added Jack S. Tan's add and sort routines to alphabetize the
             folder names
	1.2  added program comments
	1.3  public release; added Ken Neighbors' "open folder twice" 
             suggestion

Disclaimer:

The user assumes all responsibility for any damage done by this program.  No
warranty is offered, and I can only guarantee that the program will take up
space on your hard drive.
