ADRUN2NS Dec.20,1996 by Otto R„der

Description:

   ADRUM2NS.CMD is a REXX script which converts Ultimail Lite Addressbook
   to Netscape Addressbook Format.

Group:

   ADRUM2NS belongs to group: ../os2/textutil

Freeware:

   ADRUM2NS may be distributed freely under the following conditions.
   Copyright notices must NOT be removed, all files contained in the file
   inventory below must be distributed together (you may not remove any
   files), and you may not charge for the program.

   If you find the program useful then send a post-card (picture of
   the location where you live) to:

       Otto R„der
       Hauptstrasse 61B/13
       A3001 Mauerbach
       ---------------
       Austria

Prerequisites:

   ADRUM2NS requires OS/2 and REXX.

   It has been developed and tested under OS/2 Warp,
   there is no intention to move it to other platforms.
   there is no intention to maintain or improve it.

Distribution:

   The following files are contained in ADRUM2NS.ZIP:

    ADRUM2NS.CMD      the REXX command-file 1996-12-21
    README.TXT        documentation, this file
    FILE_ID.DIZ       Id-file

Installation:

   To install ADRUM2NS just UNZIP the ADRUM2NS.ZIP file and place the
   command into a directory contained in your CONFIG.SYS PATH= statement.

Usage:

     From an OS/2 command line start ADRUM2NS:

       ADRUM2NS umail-addressbook-name [ netscape-addressbook-name

       if 'netscape-addressbook-name' is omitted the outfilename
       will be 'address.htm' which is the original name used by
       Nesacape Navigator.

       In my installation the following example worked:

         adrum2ns "c:\tcpip\umail\mailstor\oraeder\Address Book.hnm"

         Note: use dblquotes (") because the filename contains a blank.

   ADRUM2NS will create an output file 'netscape-addressbook-name'
   and it will start an editor to view this file.

   This file 'netscape-adressbook-name' may be copied or edited
   into Netscapes real address-book.

Warranty:

   The program is distributed on an as-is basis.

   There is no guarantee to get certain results
   nor is any guarantee to avoid damages of existing files.

   Note: In the current directory the program will
         overwrite any file with filename of 'netscape-addressbook-name',
         if 2nd parameter is not specified, this is 'address.htm'.

Comments:

   Comments pls to:

         oraeder@ibm.net
