                    SEE NOTES BELOW FOR INSTALLATION

Synopsis:    Presentation Manager front end (through Visual REXX)
             for the TCP/IP file transfer program FTPPM.

Author:      Michele Marziani
             Dipartimento di Fisica
             Universita' di Ferrara, ITALY
             e-mail: marziani@ferrara.infn.it

Requirements:IBM OS/2 2.x with REXX installed
             IBM TCP/IP version 1.2.1 or higher (only tested with 1.2.1)
             IBM EWS VREXX 1.0 or higher
               (available via anonymous ftp from any major OS/2 archive,
                e.g. ftp.cdrom.com or software.watson.ibm.com)

Description: Are you tired of re-typing the same information at all
             times when FTPing to a remote host?
             The TCP/IP FTPPM "Remote Logon" procedure reads your
             NETRC file searching for "User" and "Password" for any
             defined host name. However you are supposed to type in
             the "Host" information anyway.
             I think this is a very annoying feature of FTPPM.
             This REXX procedure tries to remedy this behaviour.

             This REXX cmd file is used to start the FTPPM program
             through a Presentation Manager front end. This allows
             the choice of a remote host entry in the TCP/IP NETRC
             file via a PM listbox, without any user typing.

             One more entry is added to the listbox: "UNLISTED HOST".
             This allows the user to specify the name, user id (optional)
             and password (optional) for an host not yet defined in the
             NETRC file, by means of a standard PM dialog box (the
             password is not echoed to the screen). This behaviour is
             quite similar to the "Remote Logon" feature of FTPPM.
             If you leave the user and password fields empty, however,
             an anonymous ftp connection is tried with the specified
             host, using "os2user@host.subdomain.domain" as a password.
             The TCP/IP definition of "host.subdomain.domain" is
             automatically retrieved from information returned by the
             OS/2 TCP/IP command 'hostname'.
             
             This procedure expects a NETRC file in the standard format
             as stated in an appendix of the TCP/IP 1.2.1 manual, i.e.
                     machine NAME [login USER] [password PASS]
             I think at least both NAME and USER have to specified in
             order to have a reasonably automated login procedure.

License:     This program is FREEWARE. It is donated to the public domain
             granted that you are not charging anything (money etc.) for
             it and derivates based upon it. You may freely distribute this
             program, provided that no changes are made to it and that the
             accompanying doc file FTPMRXFE.DOC is being distributed
             together with FTPMRXFE.CMD in the unmodified archive
             file FTPRXFE1.ZIP.

Disclaimer:  The same standard disclaimers apply as for any piece of
             shareware/freeware software. Therefore there is no guarantee
             that it works without errors, etc. etc.

             In fact this is my second REXX program in my life! All the
             code below was partly inspired by very useful pieces of code
             I've found at ftp.cdrom.com or software.watson.ibm.com
             (e.g. VARC10B3, ZIPENG10, VREXX TESTDLGS.CMD, etc...).
             Many thanks to their respective authors.

             This program has only been tested with an 800x600 PM screen
             mode. So there is a chance that the program windows are not
             correctly positioned/displayed with different screen resolutions.
             However window screen positioning shouldn't be dependent on PM
             screen resolution. Furthermore, error checking is far from
             extensive. So don't blame me too much.

             Please, if you find an error, post me a message describing it.
             I will try to fix and rerelease it to the net.
             If you can improve it, please do so. All I ask is that you
             drop me a note with a copy of the improvements.

             You can contact me with suggestions or bug reports via e-mail
             on the Internet at 'marziani@ferrara.infn.it' or on DECnet
             at '39967::MARZIANI'.  Thank you.

Revision history:
  v1.00: 11/11/93    Initial version (not released)
  v1.01: 15/11/93    Fixed bug in the NETRC file search mechanism
                     Improved NETRC file opening logic
                     Modified sign-on window font size



                         INSTALLATION PROCEDURE

1) Unpack FTPRXFE1.ZIP in any directory, then move FTPMRXFE.CMD to any
   directory in your path, e.g. C:\TCPIP\BIN

2) Create a new WPS object for FTPMRXFE.CMD, e.g. by dragging a Program
   Template to the WPS or any folder of your choice. Open the Settings
   Notebook for the object, fill in the "Path and file name" field with
   the full qualified path of FTPMRXFE.CMD. In the "Working directory"
   field specify the name of the directory where you usually download
   files via FTP, e.g. C:\DOWNLOAD
   Click on the "Session" tab and check "OS/2 window", then both "Start
   minimized" and "Close window on exit".
   Click on the "General" tab and choose a meaningful WPS object Title,
   e.g. "FTP PM Front End". If you have extracted an icon file from the
   TCP/IP program FTPPM, then you might associate it to this object in
   the "Current icon" field. Use the "Find..." button for this purpose.

3) Run FTPMRXFE.CMD by double clicking on the newly created object.
