Application Name: PPIPFC.CMD Version 1.10

Requirements:     OS/2 Extended Edition 1.2 or later.
                  OS/2 Standard Edition 1.3

Description:      A Pre-Processor for the Information Presentation
                  Facility Compiler. Because the IPFC program cannot
                  read a definitions file (.h file) you cannot use
                  identifiers on the res= parameter to :h tags, you must
                  specify a hard-coded resource number. PPIPFC.CMD is
                  designed to read a .h file and obtain a list of
                  definitions and then substitute those definitions into
                  your .ipf file.

Invocation:       The following example is how the test.ipf file was
                  created from the test.txt and test.h files included
                  in this package:

                  ppipfc test.txt test.ipf test.h

The following files make up the REXHLAPI.ZIP file:

  ppipfc.cmd - PPIPFC program.
  ppipfc.doc - This file.
  test1.h    - Example definitions file.
  test1.txt  - Example ipf file prior to pre-processing.
  test1.ipf  - Output file of test1.txt and test1.h.


Notes:
  The documentation for this CMD is located in the comment header of the
  PPIPFC.CMD file.

  No warranties, guarantees, etc. are implied, and no liability is
  assumed for the code, examples, or documentation.

  This software is user-supported software and may be freely
  copied and used by anyone who wishes to do so as long as the
  following conditions are met:

  1. These functions may not be used by any program for
     which a fee is charged unless the owner of the program
     has paid the registration fee.

  2. If you transmit a copy of this software to another
     party you must give them the complete unaltered
     contents of the PPIPFC.ZIP file.

  3. If you make any modifications to these functions you
     must change the name of the PPIPFC.CMD file to some other name.

  If you feel that this program has benefited you, please
  register it by sending $25.00 to:

       Pedagogic Software
       W. David Ashley
       5 Timberline Dr.
       Trophy Club, Tx 76262

  If you have questions, comments or suggestions please contact me
  through the OS/2 Shareware BBS or at the address below:

      W. David Ashley
      5 Timberline Dr.
      Trophy Club, Tx 76262



Version 1.00 - 03/21/1991
-------------------------

  1. Original release.


