From: Rony.Flatscher@wu-wien.ac.at
Newsgroups: comp.os.os2.networking.tcp-ip,comp.os.os2.networking.www
Subject: REXX-script to generate URL-objects from quicklist (WE0525)
Date: 5 Jun 1995 01:35:35 GMT
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3qtn17$29n@osiris.wu-wien.ac.at>
Reply-To: Rony.Flatscher@wu-wien.ac.at

WE0525 introduced a very cool feature:  one can simply drags a web page to the
workplace shell and an URL-object is automatically created, with a title, an
editable URL and a file containing that URL (allowing for editing the URL in
different places). By double-clicking on the URL-object a window pops up which 
allows for editing the URL, by dragging the URL to the WebExplorer object or on 
to an open instance of WebExplorer that URL gets immediately loaded.

Ever since then I wished to have a utility to transfer my very large quicklist
from previous versions to those nice URL-objects, so I would be able to arrange
them the way I want by means of WPS folders, sorting, defining links (shadows)
etc.

As no one so far was able to tell the setup-string necessary for the workplace
shell I started to play around with REXX and the SysCreateObject function and
found a way to do exactly what I wanted: to create URL-objects from REXX.

It may be possible that some others also like the new URL-object feature of
WE0525, so I enclose the REXX-script to this file, so it becomes possible to you
to have your quicklist available as URL-objects.  

You would need to save the REXX-program starting right after the first
"cut-here" message as "wequickl.cmd" (as for "WebExplorer Quicklist"; the first
line *must* start with the opening REXX-comment "/*" as this tells the OS/2
command interpreter that this file contains a REXX program).  

Thereafter open any OS/2 window and run the REXX-program by typing "wequickl" at
the prompt.  The script will automatically create a folder named "WEB Quicklist
Folder" on the desktop and place all quicklist-entries as URL-objects into it.
If you ever repeat this script URL-objects already in this folder won't be
recreated (unless your move those URL-objects to other folders *or* rename the
title).

Please remember, it is OS/2 Warp's object orientation which makes it feasible
for object greenhorns like myself to even dare to write such a REXX-script which
employs WPS objects.  As you see it works and is not even difficult.  I
commented the code so REXX "illegibles" (no insults intended :)  ) should be
able to grasp the logic.

Good luck.

---rony
