Patching pipe buffer size of CMD.EXE

1. Why?

   The default pipe buffer size of 512 bytes is from OS/2 1.x where computers
   had only a few MB of physical memory if at all.
   This requires 4096 task swithes to transfer a single megabyte of data.

3. How?

   - Get lxLite if you do not already have it. (look at hobbes.nmsu.edu)
   - End ALL running instances of CMD.EXE including hidden ones started by
     applications or batch files.
   - You may want to check this with watchcat or some other process explorer.
   - Run pipepatch.cmd from any directory you like. It will do all other
     required steps.
   - DO NOT run pipepatch.cmd from an OS/2 command prompt, because this is an
     active instance of CMD.EXE and you have to close all instances in the
     first step. Start it directly with the PMSHELL or some other shell like
     FC/2.

4. Risks

   The patch is tested with eCS 1.05 (=MCP2). I did a rough test with OS/2
   Advanced Server Version 3, too. But most likely this will work with ANY
   32 bit Version of OS/2. OS/2 2.x is completely untested.
   I would not wonder if the patch itself wolud work with OS/2 1.x too, but
   most likely pipepatch.cmd will not run.

   Of course, changing CMD.EXE of a running system is a ticklish task. And if
   this is interrupted at the wrong moment, you do not have a working shell
   at the path pointed by COMSPEC. The System may not work or boot at all if
   such an important file is damaged.
   However, pipepatch.cmd does it's best not to leave the system in an un-
   useable state regardless of which error occurs. But fatal errors like
   physical disk I/O problems or power fails cannot be handled. So it is a
   good advide if you have a boot disk or CD with the necessary components
   available. The shell of the installation disks is sufficient for this
   purpose.

4. Tweaking

   pipepatch.cmd sets the buffer size to 65024 bytes by default. You may call
   pipepatch.cmd with an integer parameter specifying the pipe buffer size in
   bytes. You may change this number later by calling pipepatch.cmd again.

   Normally it is the larger the buffer the better, but some applications may
   perform better if the buffer size is dividable by a certain number of bytes
   or if it is a power of 2. Reasonable pipe buffer sizes are:
     65024  -  dividable by 512
     61440  -  dividable by 4096
     32768  -  power of 2
   I do not recommend to use buffer sizes not dividable by 512, because latent
   bugs in applications may appear when blocks of 512 bytes get fragmented.

5. Known problems

   After patching CMD.EXE the execution of REXX scripts may mo longer work.
   This can be cured be restarting the PMSHELL.
   This is a general problem and not directly related to pipepatch.cmd. It may
   arise at other more inocuous occasions too.

5. Details

   CMD.EXE ist mainly 16 bit code. It uses the 16 bit API function DosMakePipe
   to create the pipes. It passes 0 as size parameter meaning the default
   value. patchpipe.cmd searches for the call to DosMakePipe and changes the
   size parameter to an explicit value. To be able to proceed CMD.EXE have to
   be uncompressed. That is the reason why we need lxLite.

   Pipepatch.cmd works in two phases. In the first phase it generates a
   patched version of CMD.EXE at a temporary location.
   In the second phase it starts itself with this teporary CMD.EXE instance
   and replaces the original one. This must be done because one instance of
   the old CMD.EXE is currently running pipepatch.cmd in phase 1 and it must
   terminate before it can be replaced.


Marcel MÅller
mueller@maazl.de
