This OS/2 REXX program will generate a REXX program that can be
used to build objects defined in an .RC file. The .RC files reside
in the ?:\OS2 directory.

Its primary function is to recreate standard OS/2 system objects
deleted inadvertently. However, the programs it generates can also
serve as a learning guide for creating your own WPS objects.

Output will be created in a file named FIXOBJnn.CMD in the
directory pointed to by the TEMP environment variable. "nn" will be
the next sequential number following any existing files created by
this program. The file name created will be shown on the console at
completion of this program.

The generated program may be moved to any convenient location or
left in the \TEMP directory at the user's discretion.

This program requires either one or two parameters. The first, and
required, parameter is the object ID of the object to be created.
An object ID is the unique string preceded with a '<' and
terminated with a '>' assigned to the object when it was created
(e.g. <WP_DESKTOP>).

The leading "<" and trailing ">" will be assumed and may optionally
be omitted. Furthermore, the object ID may be entered case
insensitively as the program will translate it to upper case since
all standard system object IDs are uppercase.

The second, and optional, parameter is the name of a valid .RC
file. If none is specified, INI.RC in the ?:\OS2 directory will be
used.

The objects that will be generated include the object whose object
ID is specified along with any other objects whose location is
given as the specified object ID. For example, if the object ID of
<WP_PROMPTS> is specified, the generated program will create the
"Command Prompts" folder along with the following objects in the
folder:

     "DOS from Drive A:"
     "DOS Full Screen"
     "DOS Window"
     "Dual Boot"
     "OS/2 Full Screen"
     "OS/2 Window"
     "WIN-OS/2 Full Screen"

A complete list of the standard system object IDs can be found in
the REXX Reference Summary Handbook (IBM PUBORDER & SRL #
S246-0078-00 / ISBN 0-9639854-1-8). The handbook is also available
from Indelible Blue or may be ordered directly from
C F S Nevada, Inc. at 800-REXX-OS2 (800-736-9672).

This program is provided "as is" by C F S Nevada, Inc. and its
author, Dick Goran (71154.2002@compuserve.com).