   Program: ACTSCLOK.CMD - set system date and time from Automatic                
                Computer Time Service (ACTS) maintained by the                    
                National Institute of Standards                                   

   Version: 1.1 - November, 1992

   Author:  Chuck Giglia, Delaware Valley OS/2 Users Group
            1129 Webster Drive, Wilmington, Delaware 19803                        
            Compuserve: 72317,3704
            Delaware Valley OS/2 Users Group BBS (302-477-0236): /0
                                                                                  
   Acknowledgements:                                                              
            Many thanks to Jerry am Ende of the Delaware Valley OS 2              
            Users Group for his enthusiasm toward REXX which piqued               
            my interest in improving on his TIMESET.CMD routine.                  
            Also, I appreciate the design ideas I got from reading John
            Deurbrouck's article in the October 27, 1992 issue of PC Magazine.
            His program was a bit flashier, but it was written for                
            Windows in C and I didn't think this problem needed a                 
            graphical solution.                                                   
                                                                                  
   Warrantee:
            I hope you can use this routine to your advantage, but I
            provide no warrantees nor do I guarantee that it performs             
            any useful function.                                                  
                                                                                  
            Your feedback or ideas for improvement are appreciated.               
                                                                                  
   Product Description                                                            
        ACTSCLOK.CMD is an OS/2 REXX command file which sets the System Date
        and Time of the invoking computer to the current date and time from       
        the Automated Computer Time Service (ACTS) maintained by the National     
        Institute of Standards. The ACTS returns Greenwich Mean Time (GMT),       
        so ACTSCLOK.CMD provides for handling a positive or negative offset       
        from GMT and allows the user to enable or disable Daylight Saving         
        Time (DST) adjustment.                                                    
                                                                                  
   Usage is:                                                                      
         ACTSCLOK <offset> <dstIndicator> <comPort> <PhoneNumber> <dialPrefix>    
                <offset>       = Minutes from GMT (i.e. EST = -300).              
                                The default is -300                               
                <dstIndicator> = Adjust for DST? (Y or N). The default is Y       
                <comPort>      = COM port to use (COM1, COM2, etc.). The          
                                default is COM1                                   
                <PhoneNumber>  = Area code and phone number of the ACTS.          
                                The default is 303-494-4774.                      
                <dialPrefix>   = Any dialing prefixes or codes required to dial   
                                the ACTS. The default is 1, (the comma causes     
                                the modem to pause briefly before continuing)     
                                                                                  
        Individual command line arguments may be forced to use the default by     
        coding an exclamation point (!) in that argument's position. For example  
        to accept all defaults except the COM port and dialing prefix, use:      
                                                                                  
                        ACTSCLOK ! ! COM2 ! 9,                                    
                                                                                  
        This example will set the system clock to 300 minutes before GMT during   
        Standard Time or 240 minutes before GMT during Daylight Saving Time.      
        The system will use COM2 to dial 9,303-494-4774 to connect to the ACTS.

        Run ACTSCLOK without any arguments (or with a single question mark (?) 
        as its sole argument) to obtain help.

   Future Plans:
        There's no guarrantee I'll get to these, but a few fixes and improvements 
        came to mind as I was adding this documentation. They include:

          - Testing ACTSCLOK on a wider range of communications hardware. I've
            run it successfully using a Practical Peripherals PM 2400FX96SA and
            a Racal Vadic 2400PA. There's no reason it shouldn't work with any
            Hayes compatible modem, but I ran into trouble when trying to run
            over a network to a shared modem pool - just didn't seem to dial the
            modem.

          - Can't figure out why the modem doesn't hang up when ACTSCLOK sends
            the hang up command (ATH). If you read the REXX code, you'll see I've
            tried a couple things, but it still doesn't do it. For now, you're
            left with either manually reseting the modem or waiting for the ACTS
            to time you out and hang up.

          - Enabling ACTSCLOK to run on a schedule (i.e. once a month, etc.). It
            seems a bit extravagant to put this routine into the OS/2 2.0 startup
            folder and have it run daily (although this may be useful to some).

   Release Notes:
          10/28/92  Version 1.0 -  Initial Release

          11/4/92   Version 1.1 -  Added functionality to automatically determine
                                   date format set for system - Thanks again to
                                   Jerry am Ende for his input here.
                                   Also, corrected small problem with time adjustments
                                   crossing into yesterday.

